# Censoring-based analysis of microbiome proportions (CAMP)

### Overview
This repository provides a demonstration on how to use the `R` package `camp`

# System Requirements

## Software Requirements

### OS Requirements

The source code has been tested on Microsoft's Windows 10 operating system and Linux (Ubuntu 18.04). The source code should be compatible with Windows, Mac, and Linux operating systems.

Before using `R` package, users should have `R` version 4.3.0 or higher, and several packages installed.

### Installation  

First, we need to install `camp`:  

    install.packages("camp_1.1.tar.gz", repos = NULL)

Then, we need to install `survival`:  

    install.packages("survival")
    
which should install within a couple of minutes on a standard machine.
   
To run the simulated data example, you will also need to install `MCMCpack`:  

    install.packages("MCMCpack")

# Demo

We first load all the source code dependencies:

```
library(camp)
library(survival)
library(MCMCpack)
```

The data can be generated by running the following code:

```
seed <- 1
n1 <- 100
n2 <- 100
p <- 1000
signal.prop <- 0.8
sum.const <- signal.prop
a <- 353

camp.dat <- GenData(seed, n1, n2, p, signal.prop, sum.const, a)
```

`camp.dat` is a list which contains a (`n x p`) OTU table and a length `n` vector of group labels.

Then, in order to run camp, we simply need to input the OTU table and corresponding group labels.
```
camp.res <- camp(camp.dat$OTU, camp.dat$Group)
head(camp.res)
```

# Output

Depending the number of covariates included, the output is either a length `p` vector of p-values or a (`p x q`) data frame of p-values. In this case, since the covariate `cov` only involves the group label (length `n` vector), the output of `camp` is a length `n` vector of p-values.

```
> head(camp.res)
[1] 4.381610e-03 1.110223e-16 1.297482e-08 3.955734e-03 1.526363e-07
[6] 1.177519e-05

```
